[[using-ssh-on-windows]]
== Using SSH on Windows

PuTTY is a popular free SSH client for Windows. This document shows how
to install and configure PuTTY so that you can connect to your
application with SSH on a Windows machine.

[[video-walkthrough]]
=== Video Walkthrough

Along with the instructions below, we've created a screencast that will
walk you through every step.

video::dZwngyEtWmU[youtube, width=640, height=480]

[[download-the-putty-installer]]
=== Download the PuTTY Installer

Get the installer from the
http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html[PuTTY
download page]

Make sure you download the latest stable release under the headers
*Binaries*/*A Windows installer for everything except PuTTYtel*. It
should be named something like *putty-0.63-installer.exe*.

[[running-the-installer]]
=== Running the Installer

After downloading the installer, using File Explorer open up the folder
you downloaded it to and double click on the icon to run the installer.

*Step 1:* You are greeted by the Welcome dialog. Click the *Next >*
button to continue

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-wizard-1.png[]

*Step 2:* The wizard asks you to select a directory to install PuTTY to.
Use the default and click the *Next >* button to continue.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-wizard-2.png[]

*Step 3:* The wizard asks which folder you wish to put PuTTY into on the
Start Menu. Use the default and click the *Next >* button to continue.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-wizard-3.png[]

*Step 4:* You are asked additional questions. You can choose to have an
icon placed on your desktop or on the Panel as a quick start button for
easier access to PuTTY if you wish. We recommend keeping the option for
associating .ppk files checked. Click the *Next >* button to continue.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-wizard-4.png[]

*Step 5:* PuTTY is ready to install. Click the *Install* button to start
the installation process.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-wizard-5.png[]

*Step 6:* Click the *Finish* button to exit the installer. We recommend
reading the README file for further information about PuTTY.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-wizard-6.png[]

[[importing-your-ssh-key]]
=== Importing Your SSH Key

We're assuming that rhc setup was already run or that you have completed
alternate steps to create an SSH key pair for use with OpenShift. We
want to import that key for use with PuTTY.

If you have not run rhc setup, visit the
https://www.openshift.com/get-started[Getting Started] page and complete
the Command Line setup steps before continuing.

*Step 1:* Launch PuTTYgen

Launch PuTTYgen, the PuTTY key manager. From the Start Menu type *putty*
in the search box. A list of putty applications shows up. Click on
PuTTYgen. On older versions of Windows navigate to the PuTTY folder and
launch it from there.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-launch-1.png[]

*Step 2:* Import the SSH Key

Once PuTTYgen starts go to the *Conversions* menu and select the *Import
key* item.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-launch-2.png[]

Alternatively, you can use the *Generate* button to create a new pair of keys. Just make sure to register any new public keys in link:https://openshift.redhat.com/app/console/settings[your openshift account setting page].

*Step 3:* Select the SSH Key for Import

A file dialog should pop up. Navigate to the *.ssh* directory in your
user folder *C:&lt;user name>\.ssh* and select the *id_rsa* key that was
generated for you by `rhc setup`.


image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-launch-3.png[]

*Step 4:* Save the Private Key as a .PPK File

PuTTYgen loads your key and displays it. Click the *Save private key*
button in this dialog.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-launch-4.png[]

*Step 5:* Select a Key Name

Another file dialog pops up prompting you for a location to save the
key. Again navigate to the *.ssh* directory in your user folder
*C:&lt;user name>\.ssh*. Name the key something you will remember and
make sure you do not overwrite any files in this directory. Good names
to use are *default.ppk* or *id_rsa.ppk*.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-launch-5.png[]

You've imported your SSH key and may close the PuTTYgen application.

[[configuring-a-session-to-connect-to-your-application]]
=== Configuring a Session to Connect to Your Application

We are assuming you've already created an application on OpenShift and
now want to configure PuTTY to easily connect to it with SSH.

*Step 1:* Launch PuTTY

If you selected the option to put an icon on the desktop or a button the
start menu, launch PuTTY from there. Otherwise, click on the Start menu
and in the search box type in *putty*. Select the PuTTY application to
run. On older versions of windows you may need to navigate to the
*PuTTY* directory in the Start Menu and launch it from there.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-configure-1.png[]

*Step 2:* Get the SSH Address

Now we need to get the ssh address of your application to enter into
PuTTY. The easiest way to find the SSH address is find it in the
https://openshift.redhat.com/app/console/applications[applications list
page of the web console] and click on your application to reach the
details page. Once on the details page, click on the *Want to log in to
your application?* link to expand the text. This text includes the ssh
command and the address. In the next step, copy this text, _removing_
the *ssh* command from the front of the string.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-configure-2.png[]

*Step 3:* Enter the Address into PuTTY

In the *Session* category, under the *Host Name* form, paste the text
you copied from the previous step, remembering to remove the *ssh*
command from the begining of the string.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-configure-3.png[]

*Step 4:* Associate Your SSH Key with the Session

In the *Category* tree, expand the *Connection* and then *SSH*
categories and select *Auth*. Click on the *Browse* button and navigate
to the *.ssh* directory in your user folder *C:&lt;user name>\.ssh* and
select the .ppk file you saved there.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-configure-4.png[]

*Step 5:* Save Your Session

In the *Category* tree go back to the *Session* category. In the *Saved
Sessions* form name your session. We recommend using the name of your
application. Click the save button and watch it pop up in the list.

Click the *Open* button to connect to your application.

Whenever you wish to connect to your application, simply select your
session in the list. Click on the *Load* button and then click on the
*Open* button.

image::/en/images/overview-ssh-putty-configure-5.png[]

[[now-you-are-ready-to-connect-to-your-openshift-application-with-ssh-on-windows]]
=== Now You Are Ready to Connect to Your OpenShift Application with SSH on
Windows

link:/page/ssh[See the SSH page] for a list of commands and things you
can inside of an SSH session using your Windows machine.
